NOTE ON THE 35 LIEDER BY SCHUBERT
by Paul von Hippel
Thursday, October 22, 1998

Of the 35 Lieder in this directory, 30 were encoded by David Huron at
a time when the Humdrum format was not as standardized as it is today. On
October 21-22, 1998, Paul von Hippel revised the encodings to conform
to modern Humdrum conventions. Von Hippel's revisions are described in
the editorial modification records ("!!!EMD") at the end of each file.
The current version of the collection is 2.0.

Huron's original encodings comprise the first 30 monophonic tunes
(schub01.krn-schub30.krn) from a printed anthology that contains only
35 Lieder in all (Friedlaender, n.d.).  On October 21-22, 1998, for the
sake of completeness, Paul von Hippel encoded the 5 Lieder that Huron had
left out (schub31.krn-schub35.krn). The encoded collection now includes
every vocal melody in the printed anthology.

In the edition from which Huron worked, the Lieder were notated in their
original keys. Von Hippel encoded from an edition for medium voice, in
which some of the Lieder had been transposed downward. After encoding,
the Lieder were transposed back up to their original keys.

There are two further discrepancies between Huron's encodings and von
Hippel's:

(1) The vocal part of a Schubet Lied often begins and ends with
several bars of rest, during which the piano plays an introduction or
codetta. Huron omitted these leading and trailing rests; von Hippel
included them.

(2) Von Hippel used 'Q' tokens to indicate small notes (grupetti and
accacciaturas), while Huron offered rhythmic performance interpretations.
For example, von Hippel would encode a pair of sixteenth note grupetti
followed by a quarter-note as follows --

	**kern
	16Qe
	16Qd
	4d
	*-

-- while Huron might interpret the grupetti as proper sixteenth notes
that rob time from the quarter note, thus reducing the quarter's notated
value to an eighth, as follows:

	**kern
	16e
	16d
	8d
	*-

REFERENCE
Friedlaender, M. (Ed.) (n.d.) Franz Schubert: Selected songs. Frankfurt,
London, New York: C.F. Peters
