42 OJIBWAY SONGS IN THE HUMDRUM **KERN REPRESENTATION 
ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPTIONS FROM THE DENSMORE COLLECTIONS
by PAUL T. von HIPPEL, 1998

These melodies were sampled at random from Densmore's (1909, 1912)
two volumes of music by the Ojibway Indians of northern Minnesota.
The random sample included only songs that were fully transcribed in
common music notation -- not, that is, those songs represented only by
an Ojibway "song picture" or by one of Densmore's analytic sketches.

In addition to the standard **kern signifiers, the following signifiers
are adapted from Densmore's transcriptions:

	> indicates that the note is sung less than a semitone above the notated pitch 
	< indicates that the note is sung less than a semitone below the notated pitch

Densmore's common-music transcriptions contain much information that is
not incorporated into this electronic edition. In particular,

 (1) Many of the songs were accompanied by a drum. The drum played a
 short repeating rhythmic pattern, which often used a different meter
 and tempo from the sung part.

 (2) Some of the songs had lyrics -- a mixture of Ojibway words and
 nonsense syllables. Neither the lyrics nor the drum parts have been
 incorporated into this electronic edition.

 (3) Some of the songs included articulations and (often incomplete)
 phrasing information.

The electronic transcriptions were checked for errors using four different
methods (Huron, 1988). First, syntactic errors were sought using the
Humdrum proof command. Second, melodic intervals of unusual types
(diminished, augmented, and compound intervals, as well as sevenths)
were checked against the paper score. Third, common-music notation was
generated from the electronic transcriptions using the Humdrum ms tool
(which would not accept some of the files), and a cursory visual check
was made for glaring errors. Finally, five of the melodies, comprising 86
pitch-rhythm records, were selected at random for re-entry. The re-entered
melodies were compared to the original transcriptions using the "diff"
command, and only one pitch error in the originals was found. This
finding is consistent with the idea that at least half of the original
transcriptions were free of pitch errors (p<.05).

Scholars using these transcriptions for research purposes should cite
the database as follows:

von Hippel, Paul T. (Ed.). (1998) 42 Ojibway songs in the Humdrum **kern
representation: Electronic transcriptions from the Densmore collections
[computer database].

REFERENCES

Densmore, F. (1909) Chippewa [i.e., Ojibway] Music, Bulletin 45 of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.:
Government Printing Office.

Densmore, F. (1912) Chippewa [i.e., Ojibway] Music--II, Bulletin 53 of
the Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution. Washington,
D.C.: Government Printing Office.

Huron, D. (1988) Error categories, detection, and reduction in a musical
database. Computers and the Humanities 22: 253-264.
