
FOREWORD

   The songs of Pueblo Indians here presented were recorded in
1928, 1930, and 1940, additional translation and information
being obtained in 1931 and 1939.  The work is essentially
musical and the descriptions of various customs are intended
as a background for the songs.  These descriptions are
presented as nearly as possible in the words of the
informants.

   It was necessary to record Pueblo songs at a low altitude,
and grateful acknowledgment is made of the courtesy of Dr. M.W.
Stirling, director of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
Smithsonian Institution, who made possible the securing of
records of Acoma songs by members of that tribe who were in
Washington, D.C.  Dr. Stirling placed at the writer's displosal
the song recordings made for him in 1928, 16 of which are
presented (cf. p.4); also the Acoma portraits (pls. 1,
frontispiece; and 2).  Acknowledgment is also made of the
assistance of Mrs. Phyllis Crandall Connor, director of the
Stand Rock Indian Ceremonial at Wisconsin Dells, Wis., who
permitted the recording of Isleta, Cochiti, and Zuni songs
by members of thos tribes who took part in the ceremonial.

   Continuing the former method of analysis, these Pueblo
songs are compared in melodic form and rhythm with the songs
of Indians living in the north woodland, on the Plains, the
high plateau of Utah, the low desert of Arizona, the Northwest
coast, and other regions which have previously been studied.*

   No linguistic study was made, and the native words are
generally presented as they were pronounced by the informants.

   When recording the songs in Wisconsin the writer had the
helpful companionship of her sister Margaret Densmore.




                          ACOMA

Philip Sanchez (Ho-ni-ya) (pl. 2, a) was born at Santa Ana Pueblo
and was adopted at Acoma as an infant.  He was the only singer
who required an interpreter.  His songs and information were
translated by Wilbert Hunt.

                          ISLETA

Anthony Lucer (Pawi'tla) (pl. 6, b) had been absent from his home
in Isleta only a few months when he recorded the songs here
presented, and he expected to return home in a short time.  He
said that his common name is derived from a Spanish word meaning
"light" or "brilliant."  His native name is Paw'tla, which was
not translated.

                         COCHITI

Evergreen Tree (Ho'cuke) (pl. 6, a) is known by the English
translation of his native name.  He is a native of Cochiti
Pueblo but is familiar with the songs of the entire region.
In addition to the Cochiti songs, he recorded songs of the
Zuni, Navaho, and Hopi which were transcribed but are not
included in this work.  Evergreen Tree has presented Pueblo
songs and dances in public exhibitions for many years.

                           ZUNI

Falling Star (Mo'yatcun'ne) was born at Zuni where his
father was a singer and dancer.  He is also known as Tony
Kaa:ma'si, a name which has no meaning.  When about 9 years
old he went to the United States Government School at Sante Fe,
N. Mex., remaining until he was about 16 years of age.  Since
that time he has lived in Zuni and taken part in all the dances,
but has never been a leader of the dances.  He had never taken
part in a public exhibition until 1940 when these songs were
recorded, and he expected to return to his quiet life in the
Zuni Pueblo.

