SENT:  Wed Mar  8 21:55:19 EST 2000

Marc,

>First, collapsing pitch into pitch class makes the results mostly
>impossible to interpret.  Will it be tricky to get Humdrum to deal with
>pitch rather than pitch class?

This isn't a problem.  I was just a little lazy in drafting the scripts.

>Second, the distinction between balungan nibani and regular balungan is
>crucial.  In balungan nibani, there are only two melodic events per gatra.
>Perhaps this is really a question of the interpretation of notated periods
>(sustains; i.e., "tied" notes).

Again, this isn't a problem.  In the Humdrum scripts I sent you, the "ditto"
command causes the dots to be filled in.  To get the right inventories
for balungan nibani, we will simply omit the ditto command.




BTW, we're approaching the point where I start to get a little anxious.
Humdrum has been around for some 15 years, and over that time many many
people have asked me to do analyses for them.  From time-to-time I
rope-in one of my students, but after a while, they too tend to feel
put-upon.  In general, I'm happy to spend an hour helping out, but once
we get serious, I'm usually reluctant to spend three or four hours doing
the basic leg work.  I imagine it's a bit like doing Gamelan transcriptions
for someone -- you might be 20 times faster than someone else, but
that's little incentive to spend several hours of your time in order
to save someone a few weeks work.

Generally, what pushes my buttons is to be involved in the process of
discovery.  This is a collaborative activity.  If you want to have
some fun, we should arrange for you to return for a weekend in Columbus.
You could stay at my place and we could work together on your repertory.
You will probably be surprised by how exhilarating this can be.
Questions like the ones you have posed can be answered (for a large
repertory) typically in a couple of minutes each.  This often leads to
a fast-paced research dialogue with the repertory:  let's try this
idea ... nope ...  how about this?  ... looks promising ...
let's refine it ... yep ...  wow ... is that also true in this other
circumstance?  ... etc.

The challenge is not doing the analyses; it's generating good
hypotheses, theories, and conceptual questions.  For inspiration,
consider looking at the questions listed at:
http://dactyl.som.ohio-state.edu/Humdrum/problems.html
Imagine parallel questions that might be posed using the information
you have encoded.

If you think you'd like to visit for a weekend, then you should
(1) determine whether my Humdrum translation of the piece you sent
is an accurate isomorph to your original representation;  (2) write
down as many questions as you can;  (3) book another flight to Ohio.

Alternatively, you might consider learning Humdrum yourself!
There is plenty of documentation on the web.

Warmest wishes,
David

