
PLEASE READ:

    Ethical Considerations Regarding Eagle Catching Songs

     Songs related to the custom of eagle catching have a
special status in Mandan culture.  These songs can be sung
only by a given individual -- a privilege that is passed
on through hereditary right.  At the time of Densmore's
collecting, these songs could be sung only by Marolipa
[Buffalo Bull Head], also known by his English name of Ben
Benson.  By 1918, Densmore had recorded 12 of the Eagle
Catching songs as sung by Marolipa.  Densmore describes the
circumstances as follows:

  "Ben Benson, a reliable informant, asked if anything had
   been "written down" concerning the custom of eagle
   catching and offered to record the Mandan songs, which he
   alone has the hereditary right to sing.  He was allowed
   to select a place where he wished to record them, and
   designated a place where he thought he would be safe from
   interruption.  He brought with him a prominent Mandan
   chief to act as witness, according to the native custom.
   At intervals during his narration he consulted his
   witness, who had the right to offer corrections if he
   considered them to be necessary."  [Densmore, 1923, p.13]

     Given the special status of Mandan eagle catching songs,
users of this database should be cognizant of the ethical
dimensions.  The following questions should be considered:
(1) Was Densmore remiss in recording, transcribing and/or
publishing notations of these songs?
(2) Is electronic distribution of these songs unethical?
(3) In what way, if any, should users of this database restrict
their use of these songs?

     In ethical matters, it is difficult to draw fixed lines,
and people of good will can differ in what they conclude
is ethically appropropriate.  Although we will offer
explicit guidelines below, individuals should consider
the following arguments in forming their own views regarding
appropriate use of the materials in this directory.

* As implied in Densmore's above description, the hereditary
  right appears to apply only to the right to sing these songs.

* Marolipa brought along a fellow Mandan "who had the right to
  offer corrections".  This implies that the songs were commonly
  heard by others, who were not themselves allowed to sing them,
  but who were sufficiently familiar with the songs as to be
  able to recognize deviations and offer advice.

* Note, however, that Marolipa's colleague was a prominent Mandan
  chief ("according to the custom").  This suggests that the
  songs might normally be sung only in the presence of a
  special restricted audience.

* If the songs were so special, why did Marolipa offer to record
  them?  Densmore's description suggests that Marolipa explicitly
  approached Densmore about the possibility of having them
  "written down".

  In answering this last question, some historical background may
  be helpful.  In the nineteenth century, there were estimated to
  be some 1,600 Mandans.  However, in the Report of the Commissioner
  of Indian Affairs for the year 1918 (p.92), the number of Mandans
  was given as just 274 individuals.  Under these circumstances,
  Marolipa might have believed that Mandan culture was in serious
  danger of disappearing outright, and so volunteered to record
  these materials for posterity.  Were Mandan culture less in
  danger, one could well imagine Marolipa refraining from having
  them recorded.

Recommendations:

     In distributing this database, we have attempted to address
some of the ethical concerns in the following ways:

* The Eagle Catching songs have been isolated from the main body
  of Mandan songs and placed in a special directory.

* Each individual file contains a Reference Record warning
  users that special ethical considerations attend the use
  of these files.

* This document concerning ethnical considerations has been
  written and included in the distribution.

* Out of respect to Mandan culture, we explicitly recommend
  that users refrain from singing these 12 songs.  We also
  recommend that users refrain from playing these songs via
  any mechnical means, such as MIDI.

* After copying the files, we recommend that users removed the
  "read permissions" from the files, so the files can be accessed
  only by an explicit act by the user.  This prevents the
  materials from being automatically accessed by shell scripts.

David Huron
August 2000

